- [Instructor] Now let's take a closer look
at how we integrate an Angular app with a Spring REST API.
Angular apps on both web and mobile will, generally,
interact with Spring via an HTTP call.
Spring Boot will expose various endpoints
to perform different operations via a REST API contract.
The contract is a agreement on how to access the API.
We will model a REST API on a fictional property called
the Landon Hotel.
Our Spring Boot application will expose
a series of endpoints defined by the HTTP verb,
the URI and the expected request parameters.
The GET endpoint expects an ID as a PATH parameter.
Then it will retrieve of room reservation resource as JSON.
The POST endpoint will expect a JSON request body.
It will create a room reservation resource
then return a JSON representing the created reservation.
The PUT endpoint will expect an ID as a path parameter
as well as a JSON request body.
Then it will update the room reservation specified
by the ID, then return a JSON representing
the updated resource.
The DELETE endpoint will take in an ID, then it will delete
the associated room reservation resource.
The PATCH verb is also sometimes used for partial updates.
In our code we could use Spring Controller MVC annotations
to define our endpoints.
Annotations can be used to define the HTTP verb to be used,
the URI of the resource, expected request params and body
and the expected response of each endpoint.
Let's break down the structure of our URI.
First off, we have an HTTP verb
which provides a uniform interface.
These verbs give us a action counterpart
to CRUD functionality on a resource.
They allow us to create, retrieve, update
and delete a resource.
A domain allows us to organize similar resources.
In general, a domain is a very cohesive set of resources.
A hotel room domain could have amenities,
reservations and service requests as resources.
Versioning allows us to support multiple versions
of an endpoint.
It allows for backwards compatibility
and also, it gives clients the chance to update over time
as you deprecate an older version endpoint.
A resource is basically anything that has a URI,
a uniform resource identifier.
Generally, you will be able to create, read,
update or delete a resource.
In this case, the resource is a room reservation.
Finally we have a PATH parameter.
The PATH parameter gives us a unique ID
to look up an existing resource from the database.
HTTP client offers a streamlined method
of calling a REST API for an Angular app.
Let's take a look at the Angular Project from a high level.
First off we have components.
Components consist of HTML,
CSS, images and Typescript or JavaScript.
Components contain your custom defined code.
An Angular app, generally, will
also contain various npm modules as dependencies.
Also, an Angular Project will generally
have several libraries for unit testing
such as Karma and Jasmine.
We also use a framework called Protractor
for end-to-end testing.
It's built on WebDriverJs, which is a part of Selenium.
Let's take a look at how it all fits together.
Let's say a Angular component needs to access
the Spring API.
The component will use the HTTP client
to make a request to a Spring API endpoint.
Spring Boot will accept and process that request.
Then it will return a response via HTTP.
A request from the HTTP client
will be composed of the following:
an HTTP verb such as GET or POST.
Request parameters and/or a request body
as well as headers such as content type.
A response from Spring Boot will include
the HTTP status code such as 200 okay.
Potentially a JSON response body
and also related headers.